# Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act: Examining the Conflict Between National Security Interests and the Intrusion into Personal Privacy

In this text, I will discuss two opposing views on the FISA Section 702 reauthorization bill scheduled for December 2023. This pertains to the authorization of an electronic surveillance program, which, despite its limitation to foreigners, has inevitably encroached on Americans' personal privacy, raising reasonable concerns about potential misuse, as seen in the case of the George Floyd protests. As of now, lawmakers have chosen to keep the program intact with a temporary extension, deferring the final decision to 2024.  

## Article 1
In Reasons's [_Congress Prepares To Reauthorize a Warrantless Domestic Spying Program the FBI Abused_](https://reason.com/2023/12/08/congress-prepares-to-reauthorize-a-warrantless-domestic-spying-program-the-fbi-abused/), the author, Eric Boehm, frames the bill as a rare opportunity for Congress to reform the problematic surveillance program, specifically prohibiting the federal government from probing Americans. In emphasizing the necessity of reforms, he cites several instances related to the FBI's misconduct of the program, including its more than 3.3 million queries through the Section 702 database in 2021, the currently proposed warrantless use of the database, the growing chance of Americans' presence in the database due to the drastically increasing targets involved, and the FBI's inappropriate use of Section 702 databases in spying on Americans involved in the George Floyd protests.

Boehm's worries are not unfounded. The Section 702 database is constructed under the premise of being solely used for national security purposes, where the growth of its size has greatly increased the incidental inclusion of Americans' private data, including phone calls and messages. Linking the presence of Americans' personal data entries in the database and evidence proving FBI's misuse in cases like the George Floyd protests, it is reasonable to doubt whether  national interests are being interpreted to divert its target against America's own people, repressing social activists, damaging the Fourth Amendment, and ultimately hurting the citizens.

## Article 2
Contrary to what Boehm proposes, WSJ's [_We Can’t Return to a Pre-9/11 Mindset on Foreign Surveillance_](https://www.wsj.com/articles/we-cant-return-to-a-pre-9-11-mindset-on-foreign-surveillance-fisa-court-congress-93be133b) presents an opposing opinion regarding the reauthorization bill. With the recognition of approaching threats and enemies, including China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia, the authors, Michael B. Mukasey and Jamil N. Jaffer, make it clear how the continuation of said surveillance program is necessary, and people's concerns are misplaced. Accordingly, they cite evidence on how the Section 702 database contributed greatly to the president’s daily high-priority intelligence and threat briefing in 2022, while the malign conduct, FBI's surveillance of Carter Page, is a result of a lie to the FISA court, where the FBI was diligently fulfilling its duty in protecting America.

Mr. Mukasey and Mr. Jaffer advocate for a "clean extension" of the surveillance program authorized by Section 702 based on their understanding of necessary sacrifice for the bigger goal of protecting national interests. They further alleviate people's concerns over the surveillance program by eliciting how the misconduct is not a flaw by nature of the program but an error that occurred in the governmental process. Their warning over the possible consequences of the lapse of Section 702 adds to their standpoint, which puts much more focus on national security.